README.md, before:

# textmate-clojure

A TextMate bundle providing syntax highlighting for Clojure.

Based on a previous Clojure bundle by [`stephenroller`](http://github.com/stephenroller/clojure-tmbundle).

Install with:

    $ cd ~/Library/Application\ Support/TextMate/Bundles
    $ git clone git://github.com/swannodette/textmate-clojure.git Clojure.tmbundle
    $ osascript -e 'tell app "TextMate" to reload bundles'

## Cake Integration

This fork adds quite a few commands via [`cake`](http://github.com/ninjudd/cake) which makes the TextMate experience considerably more "Lispy".

First you need to install cake.

    sudo gem install cake
    
If you already have cake installed make sure you have at least version 0.3.8.

Once installed you can create a file and select the Clojure mode. You should first run <code>cake repl</code> at the command line before running any of the Clojure mode commands in order to avoid any weirdness. In general this is the recommended way of working. A quick tutorial follows in the next section.

The commands:

* Eval : will evaluate the selected code in the current REPL for the project directory.
* Eval pprint : like Eval but pretty-pprints the result.
* Load File : load the entire file into the current REPL.
* Show Source : shows the source of the selected function in a new window.
* Macroexpand : macroexpands the selected s-expression.
* Macroexpand all : fully macroexpands the selected s-expression.

## REPL Style Development

Coding in Lisp is a very interactive experience. Even if you are used to other languages that have good REPLs (Python, Ruby, Haskell), none are quite as interactive as a competent Lisp REPL.

First launch Terminal.app and run the following in a new window:

<pre class="console">
cake repl
</pre>

After a couple (or several) seconds you should get a REPL. If you've already run this command once before you should be dropped into a REPL immediately. Only the first time will be slow.

Create a new file and select the Clojure mode in TextMate. Type in the expression <code>(+ 4 5)</code>. Select this and run the Eval command (Command-Shift-X). You should get a new window with the number 9 in it.

## Tips

In order to get proper word movement in Clojure you might want to set your Word Characters to <code>_/-.:</code> in the Text Editing tab of the TextMate Preferences window.

For an even more SLIME like experience you could install [`Visor`](http://visor.binaryage.com/) so that switching to the REPL is just a key-stroke away.

Commit message:

first batch of changes from previous lein and nailgun scripts

README.md, after:

# textmate-clojure

A TextMate bundle providing syntax highlighting for Clojure.

Based on a previous Clojure bundle by [`stephenroller`](http://github.com/stephenroller/clojure-tmbundle).

Subsequently cloned from [`swannodette`](http://github.com/swannodette/textmate-clojure)

I tried to add some of the commands that I developed for a Lein + nailgun/VIM-REPL setup, which never worked well enough to share, to a cake-based environment, which seems already useful enough for some "informal" hacking. 

This cake environment (http://github.com/ninjudd/cake) is truly cool and includes the first lightweight REPL-client that has the potential to transform clojure into a premier scripting language for sysadmins... like a "elegant and readable Perl on steroids". Great work by Justin Balthrop et. al. David Nolan shows how we can actually script the commands/scripts in TextMate in clojure itself with the help from cake - that sure beats bash/python/ruby, and it allows you to use the namespace context of the project to resolve names, docs, code, etc. I have extended David Nolan's work trying to help to improve his clojure mode for textmate. All is still very raw and somewhat shaky, but the potential...

---

Install with:

    $ cd ~/Library/Application\ Support/TextMate/Bundles
    $ git clone git://github.com/swannodette/textmate-clojure.git Clojure.tmbundle
    $ osascript -e 'tell app "TextMate" to reload bundles'

## Cake Integration

This fork adds quite a few commands via [`cake`](http://github.com/ninjudd/cake) which makes the TextMate experience considerably more "Lispy".

First you need to install cake.

    sudo gem install cake
    
If you already have cake installed make sure you have at least version 0.3.8.

Once installed you can create a file and select the Clojure mode. You should first run <code>cake repl</code> at the command line before running any of the Clojure mode commands in order to avoid any weirdness. In general this is the recommended way of working. A quick tutorial follows in the next section.

The commands:

* Eval : will evaluate the selected code in the current REPL for the project directory.
* Eval pprint : like Eval but pretty-pprints the result.
* Load File : load the entire file into the current REPL.
* Show Source : shows the source of the selected function in a new window.
* Macroexpand : macroexpands the selected s-expression.
* Macroexpand all : fully macroexpands the selected s-expression.

## REPL Style Development

Coding in Lisp is a very interactive experience. Even if you are used to other languages that have good REPLs (Python, Ruby, Haskell), none are quite as interactive as a competent Lisp REPL.

First launch Terminal.app and run the following in a new window:

<pre class="console">
cake repl
</pre>

After a couple (or several) seconds you should get a REPL. If you've already run this command once before you should be dropped into a REPL immediately. Only the first time will be slow.

Create a new file and select the Clojure mode in TextMate. Type in the expression <code>(+ 4 5)</code>. Select this and run the Eval command (Command-Shift-X). You should get a new window with the number 9 in it.

## Tips

In order to get proper word movement in Clojure you might want to set your Word Characters to <code>_/-.:</code> in the Text Editing tab of the TextMate Preferences window.

For an even more SLIME like experience you could install [`Visor`](http://visor.binaryage.com/) so that switching to the REPL is just a key-stroke away.
